In the mid-1970s, several brothers from the Montreal area were approached to help with a unique situation that was unfolding.
A special pioneer, who was taking the lead at the time, said that about a thousand people, all from the same church, wanted to study the Bible with Jehovah's Witnesses.
And it was all because of an informal witness. The story began this way.
A brother in the local congregation approached me one day to tell me about an experience he had with one of his workmates.
This man was responsible for a small local church, and the brother had been able to give him an informal witness.
The man indicated that he would like a Bible study, and he wanted to convince the other members of his church to also study the Bible with Jehovah's Witnesses.
The fact was, this person had a certain influence in the church.
So he talked to the church members about the message he had heard from the brother.
And he convinced them that what they were missing was a better understanding of the Bible.
Many people heard about it because it was an exceptional event.
From what I heard, there was around a thousand people who wanted to study the Bible at that time.
We didn't have the brothers and sisters that were needed to conduct all these Bible studies.
So they formed groups of ten, twelve, fifteen people.
And once or twice a week in King of Halls, they conducted Bible studies.
It was questions, questions. Everyone was asking questions.
But the Bible could always answer all these questions in a logical way.
One verse would explain another, and we came to see that the Bible in its entirety could explain every subject.
At the beginning, groups of two or three family studied together.
And yeah, they answered with the Bible.
That amazed me because I didn't know the Bible at all.
But I thought the Bible talks about this, the Bible talks about that. It was like a discovery for me.
That was the parents. The children weren't there, so when we accepted it, then we teach it to our children.
Everyone was disciplined, sitting at the table.
The children were very quiet with their truthbook in front of them and their Bible.
When these families came to the Kingdom Hall, the children were sitting beside their parents, not moving, paying attention to what was being said.
I was young when they started coming. I remember it very well. A lot of them were my age.
I saw them like future potential friends. It was really touching.
The first meeting I attended was here in Laval.
It really contributed to me one day taking a stand.
And Jehovah becoming my God and the truth becoming my way of life.
When I was young, I was very afraid of death.
It was such a relief to learn that we don't suffer when we die. It's like a sleep.
The ambitions I had before that may have been attainable became second place.
Now it was to have a simple life, to walk with the organization, and to raise my children in the truth.
Today these brothers are really doing a lot in the organization, helping in different areas,
sheltering great responsibilities.
My father always strived to set the example for all his children.
And it made an impression on me. Now my wife and I have the privilege of serving here at the Canada branch.
I was eight years old when my family started attending meetings.
I have really good memories of how the local congregation at the time took care of us and looked after us.
At the age of 15, I started reading my Bible every day and studying it too.
From that point on, I knew what I wanted to do with my life.
Serve Jehovah full time.
I really think Jehovah could see us on the inside.
Jehovah helped us a lot.
You can't have anything better than that.
On our own, we never would have got out of that situation.
But Jehovah found a way to find rightly disposed ones.
A simple informal witness led to Bible studies that touched so many.